README.md, before:

# VITime
CLI tool to view your timetable from terminal anytime!

<a href="https://www.python.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/built%20with-Python3-blue.svg" alt="built with Python3" /></a>
<a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/vitime"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/vitime?color=blue&label=pypi%20package" alt="PyPI version" height="18"></a>



## Table of contents  

- [Preview](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#preview)  
- [Installation](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#installation)
  - [PyPI](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#pypi)
  - [Source code](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#source-code)
- [Updates](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#options-and-updates)
- [Setting up](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#setting-up)
  - [Add timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-timetable)
  - [Add course](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-addcourse)
- [Usage](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#usage)
  - [View today's timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-today)
  - [View a day's timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-showday)
  - [View full timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-full)
  - [Show all courses](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-showcourses)
  - [Delete course](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-deletecourse)
  - [Delete timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-deletetimetable)
- [Change log](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [License](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#license)
- [References](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#references)



## Preview

![VITime](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/VITime.gif)




## Installation
### PyPI
Open terminal and install the package using python package installer.
```sh
pip install vitime==0.2.1
```
### Source code
- Download latest release via [zip file](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/archive/refs/tags/v0.2.1.zip) or [tar file](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/archive/refs/tags/v0.2.1.tar.gz)
- Extract the folder to your desired location
- Then install it in your desired terminal using suitable command
#### Linux or Max OS X
```sh
user@hostname:~$ sudo python3 setup.py install
```
#### Windows
Run command prompt as administrator and
```psh
C:\users\username> python setup.py install
```



## Updates

VITime has automatic update detection to notify user when a newer version is available! You can update using `vitime -u` or `vitime --update`.

![vitime -u](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_update.gif)



## Setting up
### Commands
#### `vitime addtimetable`

Command to add entire timetable.  
> **Note:** This deletes any existing timetable.  
<p>
1. Copying timetable from vtop  

![copying timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/copying_timetable.gif)</p>   

<p>
2. Adding timetable using VITime  

![vitime addtimetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_addtimetable.gif)</p>




#### `vitime addcourse`

Command to add a course.

![vitime addcourse](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_addcourse.gif)



## Usage
### Commands
#### `vitime today`  

Shows all ongoing/left classes for the day.  
> **Note:** This does not show all the classes during the day, to view all classes use `vitable showday` command.

![vitime today](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_today.gif)





#### `vitime showday`

Shows all the classes on the day entered by the user.

![vitime showday](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_showday.gif)





#### `vitime full`

Shows the entire timetable.

![vitime full](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_full.gif)






#### `vitime showcourses`

Shows a lot of all the courses added to the timetable.

![vitime showcourses](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_showcourses.gif)





#### `vitime deletecourse`

Deletes the given course from timetable.

![vitime deletecourse](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_deletecourse.gif)




#### `vitime deletetimetable`

Deletes the entire timetable.  
> **Note:** The confirmation message is case sensitive so 'YES', 'Yes' will not work.

![vitime deletetimetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_deletetimetable.gif)



## License
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/LICENSE)  

Copyright (c) 2021 Dhruv9449  
[MIT license](LICENSE)

## References
This project is inspired by [VITable](https://github.com/CartelProject/vitable) made by -  
[CartelProject](https://github.com/CartelProject)
- [Vishesh Bansal](https://github.com/VisheshBansal)
- [Gagan Malvi](https://github.com/gaganmalvi)
<br>
<br>

<p align="center">
Developed by <a href="https://github.com/Dhruv9449" target=_blank>Dhruv Shah</a>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: running admin for installation

README.md, after:

# VITime
CLI tool to view your timetable from terminal anytime!

<a href="https://www.python.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/built%20with-Python3-blue.svg" alt="built with Python3" /></a>
<a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/vitime"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/vitime?color=blue&label=pypi%20package" alt="PyPI version" height="18"></a>



## Table of contents  

- [Preview](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#preview)  
- [Installation](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#installation)
  - [PyPI](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#pypi)
  - [Source code](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#source-code)
- [Updates](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#options-and-updates)
- [Setting up](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#setting-up)
  - [Add timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-timetable)
  - [Add course](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-addcourse)
- [Usage](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#usage)
  - [View today's timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-today)
  - [View a day's timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-showday)
  - [View full timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-full)
  - [Show all courses](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-showcourses)
  - [Delete course](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-deletecourse)
  - [Delete timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#vitime-deletetimetable)
- [Change log](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [License](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#license)
- [References](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI#references)



## Preview

![VITime](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/VITime.gif)




## Installation
### PyPI
Open terminal and install the package using python package installer.
```sh
pip install vitime==0.2.1
```
**NOTE:** This might require admin access, on windows run your terminal as administrator and for linux based systems use-  
```sh
sudo pip install vitime==0.2.1
```


### Source code
- Download latest release via [zip file](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/archive/refs/tags/v0.2.1.zip) or [tar file](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/archive/refs/tags/v0.2.1.tar.gz)
- Extract the folder to your desired location
- Then install it in your desired terminal using suitable command
#### Linux or Max OS X
```sh
user@hostname:~$ sudo python3 setup.py install
```
#### Windows
Run command prompt as administrator and
```psh
C:\users\username> python setup.py install
```



## Updates

VITime has automatic update detection to notify user when a newer version is available! You can update using `vitime -u` or `vitime --update`.

![vitime -u](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_update.gif)



## Setting up
### Commands
#### `vitime addtimetable`

Command to add entire timetable.  
> **Note:** This deletes any existing timetable.  
<p>
1. Copying timetable from vtop  

![copying timetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/copying_timetable.gif)</p>   

<p>
2. Adding timetable using VITime  

![vitime addtimetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_addtimetable.gif)</p>




#### `vitime addcourse`

Command to add a course.

![vitime addcourse](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_addcourse.gif)



## Usage
### Commands
#### `vitime today`  

Shows all ongoing/left classes for the day.  
> **Note:** This does not show all the classes during the day, to view all classes use `vitable showday` command.

![vitime today](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_today.gif)





#### `vitime showday`

Shows all the classes on the day entered by the user.

![vitime showday](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_showday.gif)





#### `vitime full`

Shows the entire timetable.

![vitime full](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_full.gif)






#### `vitime showcourses`

Shows a lot of all the courses added to the timetable.

![vitime showcourses](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_showcourses.gif)





#### `vitime deletecourse`

Deletes the given course from timetable.

![vitime deletecourse](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_deletecourse.gif)




#### `vitime deletetimetable`

Deletes the entire timetable.  
> **Note:** The confirmation message is case sensitive so 'YES', 'Yes' will not work.

![vitime deletetimetable](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/assets/vitime_deletetimetable.gif)



## License
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Dhruv9449/VITime-CLI/blob/main/LICENSE)  

Copyright (c) 2021 Dhruv9449  
[MIT license](LICENSE)

## References
This project is inspired by [VITable](https://github.com/CartelProject/vitable) made by -  
[CartelProject](https://github.com/CartelProject)
- [Vishesh Bansal](https://github.com/VisheshBansal)
- [Gagan Malvi](https://github.com/gaganmalvi)
<br>
<br>

<p align="center">
Developed by <a href="https://github.com/Dhruv9449" target=_blank>Dhruv Shah</a>
</p>
